.TH COPY_OFFLOAD_CONFIGURE 3 "April 2026" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
copy_offload_configure \- configure handle for secure server communication
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.PP
.BI "int copy_offload_configure(COPY_OFFLOAD *" offload );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copy_offload_configure ()
function configures a COPY_OFFLOAD handle with all parameters necessary to
establish secure TLS 1.3 communication with a copy-offload server.
.PP
This function performs the following configuration:
.IP \(bu 3
Enables TLS 1.3 with certificate verification
.IP \(bu
Sets HTTP/2 over TLS as the protocol
.IP \(bu
Configures API version header ("Accepts-version: 1.0")
.IP \(bu
Determines server hostname and port from environment
.IP \(bu
Retrieves local compute node hostname
.IP \(bu
Reads the bearer token from the environment (if present)
.SS Server Discovery
The function locates the copy-offload server using the following logic:
.IP 1. 4
If
.B NNF_CONTAINER_LAUNCHER
environment variable is set, uses its value as the server hostname (typical for
MPI-launched servers)
.IP 2.
Otherwise, reads the hostname from
.I /etc/local-rabbit.conf
(typical for single-node configurations)
.PP
The server port is obtained from
.B NNF_CONTAINER_PORTS
environment variable. If multiple ports are specified (comma-separated), only
the first port is used.
.SS Authentication
The bearer token is read eagerly from the
.B DW_WORKFLOW_TOKEN
environment variable via
.BR getenv (3)
and stored in the handle. If this variable is not set, the handle's token is
NULL and requests will be made without authentication (which may fail depending
on server configuration).
.PP
Applying the token to the underlying libcurl handle is deferred until the first
request. The token can be overridden before that point using
.BR copy_offload_override_token (3).
.SS TLS Configuration
The function stores TLS parameters in the handle; the certificate is applied to
libcurl on the first request. Configuration includes:
.IP \(bu 3
Protocol: HTTPS (TLS 1.3)
.IP \(bu
Certificate verification: Enabled (peer and host)
.IP \(bu
Default certificate path: /etc/nnf-dm-usercontainer/cert.pem
.IP \(bu
HTTP version: HTTP/2 over TLS
.PP
The certificate path can be overridden before the first request using
.BR copy_offload_override_cert (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns 0 on success.
.PP
Returns 1 on failure and sets
.I offload->err_message
to a descriptive error string. Possible failures include:
.IP \(bu 3
Unable to determine local hostname
.IP \(bu
.B NNF_CONTAINER_LAUNCHER
not set and
.I /etc/local-rabbit.conf
not readable
.IP \(bu
.B NNF_CONTAINER_PORTS
environment variable not set
.IP \(bu
Server hostname parsing errors
.SH ERRORS
This function does not set
.I errno
directly. Error information is stored in the handle's
.I err_message
field (null-terminated string up to CURL_ERROR_SIZE * 2 bytes).
.PP
Common error scenarios:
.IP \(bu 3
"Unable to get hostname: errno N" -
.BR gethostname (2)
failed
.IP \(bu
"Unable to get server host from environment variable..." - missing required
environment variables or configuration files
.IP \(bu
"Unable to get server port from environment variable..." -
.B NNF_CONTAINER_PORTS
not set
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Interface	Attribute
T{
.BR copy_offload_configure ()
T}	Thread safety: MT-Safe
.TE
.PP
This function is thread-safe provided each thread uses its own COPY_OFFLOAD handle.
.SH EXAMPLE
.\" example-file: example_configure.c
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;
    int ret;

    handle = copy_offload_init();
    if (!handle) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Initialization failed\n");
        return 1;
    }

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_SKIP_TLS"))
        ret = copy_offload_configure_without_tls(handle);
    else
        ret = copy_offload_configure(handle);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Configuration failed: %s\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"))
        copy_offload_override_cert(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"));
    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"))
        copy_offload_override_token(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"));

    printf("Successfully configured for TLS communication\n");

    /* Now ready to submit requests... */

    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
This function must be called after
.BR copy_offload_init (3)
and before any operations that communicate with the server
.IP \(bu
For testing without TLS, use
.BR copy_offload_configure_without_tls (3)
.IP \(bu
Certificate and token can be overridden using
.BR copy_offload_override_cert (3)
and
.BR copy_offload_override_token (3),
but these must be called before the first request is sent
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NNF_CONTAINER_LAUNCHER
Hostname of the Rabbit node running the copy-offload server. Takes precedence
over
.IR /etc/local-rabbit.conf .
.TP
.B NNF_CONTAINER_PORTS
Comma-separated list of server ports. The first port is used.
.TP
.B DW_WORKFLOW_TOKEN
Bearer token for authentication. Read eagerly during configuration; applied to
the libcurl handle on the first request.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_init (3),
.BR copy_offload_configure_without_tls (3),
.BR copy_offload_override_cert (3),
.BR copy_offload_override_token (3),
.BR copy_offload_override_hostname (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR libcopyoffload (3)
