.TH COPY_OFFLOAD_SHUTDOWN 3 "January 2025" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
copy_offload_shutdown \- shutdown the copy-offload server
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.PP
.BI "int copy_offload_shutdown(COPY_OFFLOAD *" offload );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copy_offload_shutdown ()
function requests a graceful shutdown of the copy-offload server. This operation
is typically used during system maintenance or when terminating a workflow that
launched its own copy-offload server instance.
.PP
The function performs a two-step process:
.IP 1. 4
Queries the server for active jobs using
.BR copy_offload_list (3)
.IP 2.
If no active jobs exist, sends a shutdown request to the server
.PP
The server will exit cleanly after completing the shutdown request, terminating
its process and freeing all resources.
.SS Safety Checks
The function refuses to shutdown the server if any jobs are active (queued,
starting, or running). This prevents data loss or corruption from interrupted
transfers. To forcefully shutdown, all active jobs must first be cancelled using
.BR copy_offload_cancel (3)
or allowed to complete.
.SS Shutdown Request
If the safety check passes, the function sends an HTTP POST request to the server's
/shutdown endpoint. The server will:
.IP \(bu 3
Complete any final cleanup operations
.IP \(bu
Close all network connections
.IP \(bu
Exit with status code 0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns 0 on success, indicating the server has acknowledged the shutdown request
and is terminating.
.PP
Returns 1 on failure. Failure reasons are placed in
.IR offload->err_message .
Common failures include:
.IP \(bu 3
Active jobs still running - Error message indicates that cancellation or completion
is required before shutdown
.IP \(bu
Communication failure - Unable to reach the server
.IP \(bu
Authentication failure - Invalid bearer token
.IP \(bu
Permission denied - Server policy prohibits shutdown requests
.PP
The
.I offload->http_code
field contains the HTTP status code if the request reached the server.
.SH ERRORS
Error messages are stored in
.IR offload->err_message :
.IP \(bu 3
"Cannot shutdown: active copy-offload requests are still running." - One or more
jobs are active; use
.BR copy_offload_list (3)
to identify them
.IP \(bu
"Error formatting shutdown request" - Internal buffer overflow
.IP \(bu
"Failed to shutdown server (HTTP %ld)" - Server refused the shutdown
.IP \(bu
libcurl errors - Network failures, timeouts
.PP
This function does not set
.IR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Interface	Attribute
T{
.BR copy_offload_shutdown ()
T}	Thread safety: MT-Safe
.TE
.PP
Thread-safe if each thread uses its own COPY_OFFLOAD handle. However, shutting
down the server affects all clients globally.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;
    char *job_list = NULL;
    int ret;

    handle = copy_offload_init();
    if (!handle) return 1;

    ret = copy_offload_configure(handle);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Configure failed: %s\\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    /* Check for active jobs before shutdown */
    ret = copy_offload_list(handle, &job_list);
    if (ret == 0 && job_list && strlen(job_list) > 0) {
        printf("Active jobs exist: %s\\n", job_list);
        printf("Cannot shutdown. Cancel jobs first.\\n");
        free(job_list);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }
    free(job_list);

    /* No active jobs, safe to shutdown */
    ret = copy_offload_shutdown(handle);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Shutdown failed: %s\\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    printf("Server shutdown initiated successfully\\n");
    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
This function is intended for administrative or workflow cleanup tasks
.IP \(bu
Shutting down the server affects all users sharing that server instance
.IP \(bu
The server must be restarted manually if shutdown was unintentional
.IP \(bu
In multi-user environments, consider policy restrictions on shutdown
.IP \(bu
The function queries for active jobs internally; no need to call
.BR copy_offload_list ()
separately unless displaying job information
.IP \(bu
After successful shutdown, subsequent operations on any handle will fail with
connection errors
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_list (3),
.BR copy_offload_cancel (3),
.BR copy_offload_init (3),
.BR libcopyoffload (3)
