.TH COPY_OFFLOAD_INIT 3 "April 2026" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
copy_offload_init \- create and initialize a copy-offload handle
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.PP
.BI "COPY_OFFLOAD *copy_offload_init(void);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copy_offload_init ()
function creates and initializes a new COPY_OFFLOAD handle for communicating
with a copy-offload server. This handle must be used for all subsequent
copy-offload operations.
.PP
The function performs the following initialization:
.IP \(bu 3
Calls
.BR curl_global_init (3)
with CURL_GLOBAL_ALL
.IP \(bu
Creates a new CURL easy handle via
.BR curl_easy_init (3)
.IP \(bu
Allocates and zeros a COPY_OFFLOAD structure
.IP \(bu
Sets initial state for error tracking
.PP
The returned handle is not yet configured for communication. After initialization,
the caller must invoke
.BR copy_offload_configure (3)
or
.BR copy_offload_configure_without_tls (3)
to establish connection parameters before performing any operations that
communicate with the server.
.PP
The handle maintains internal state including:
.IP \(bu 3
libcurl session information
.IP \(bu
Server connection parameters
.IP \(bu
TLS certificate and authentication token
.IP \(bu
Error messages and HTTP status codes
.IP \(bu
Protocol and hostname information
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, returns a pointer to a newly allocated COPY_OFFLOAD handle.
.PP
On failure, prints an error message to stderr and returns NULL. Failure typically
indicates that libcurl initialization failed, which may occur if the system is
out of memory or libcurl cannot be initialized.
.SH ERRORS
This function does not set
.IR errno .
Error conditions are reported by returning NULL and printing diagnostic information
to stderr.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Interface	Attribute
T{
.BR copy_offload_init ()
T}	Thread safety: MT-Unsafe
.TE
.PP
This function calls
.BR curl_global_init (3)
which is not thread-safe. It must be called exactly once per process, from the
main thread, before any other threads are created.
.SH EXAMPLE
.\" example-file: example_init.c
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;

    handle = copy_offload_init();
    if (!handle) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Failed to initialize handle\n");
        return 1;
    }

    /* Configure and use the handle... */

    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
Every handle created with
.BR copy_offload_init ()
must be freed with
.BR copy_offload_cleanup (3)
to prevent memory leaks
.IP \(bu
The handle is not ready for use until
.BR copy_offload_configure (3)
or
.BR copy_offload_configure_without_tls (3)
has been called
.IP \(bu
Calling this function multiple times creates independent handles
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_configure (3),
.BR copy_offload_configure_without_tls (3),
.BR copy_offload_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_easy_init (3),
.BR curl_global_init (3),
.BR libcopyoffload (3)
