.TH COPY_OFFLOAD_LIST 3 "April 2026" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
copy_offload_list \- list active copy-offload jobs
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.PP
.BI "int copy_offload_list(COPY_OFFLOAD *" offload ", char **" output );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copy_offload_list ()
function retrieves a list of all active copy-offload jobs on the server. This
includes jobs that are queued, starting, running, or recently completed but not
yet expired from the server's job cache.
.PP
The function sends an HTTP GET request to the server's /list endpoint and returns
a comma-separated list of job names.
.SS Parameters
.TP
.I offload
Handle initialized and configured for server communication.
.TP
.I output
Pointer to a char* initialized to NULL by the caller. On success, if the server
returns a non-empty response body,
.I *output
is set to a newly allocated string containing the comma-separated list of job
names. The caller is responsible for calling
.BR free (3)
on this string if it is non-NULL. If the server returns an empty body,
.I *output
remains NULL.
.SS Output Format
When non-NULL, the output string contains job names separated by commas with no
spaces:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
job-00000001,job-00000003,job-00000007
.EE
.in
.PP
Job names are in the format returned by
.BR copy_offload_copy (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns 0 on success. On success,
.I *output
may contain the job list string (if jobs are active) or remain NULL (if no jobs
are active). Free
.I *output
with
.BR free (3)
if it is non-NULL.
.PP
Returns 1 on failure. On failure,
.I offload->err_message
contains a descriptive error message. The
.I offload->http_code
field contains the HTTP response code if available.
.PP
Common HTTP response codes:
.IP \(bu 3
200 - Success
.IP \(bu
401 - Unauthorized (invalid or missing bearer token)
.IP \(bu
500 - Server error
.SH ERRORS
Error messages are stored in
.IR offload->err_message .
Common errors include:
.IP \(bu 3
"Error formatting request: buffer too small" - URL construction failed
.IP \(bu
libcurl errors - Connection failures, DNS resolution errors
.IP \(bu
Server HTTP errors - Authentication failures, server unavailable
.PP
This function does not set
.IR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Interface	Attribute
T{
.BR copy_offload_list ()
T}	Thread safety: MT-Safe
.TE
.PP
Thread-safe if each thread uses its own COPY_OFFLOAD handle.
.SH EXAMPLE
.\" example-file: example_list.c
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;
    char *job_list = NULL;
    char *job, *saveptr;
    int ret;

    handle = copy_offload_init();
    if (!handle) return 1;

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_SKIP_TLS"))
        ret = copy_offload_configure_without_tls(handle);
    else
        ret = copy_offload_configure(handle);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Configure failed: %s\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"))
        copy_offload_override_cert(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"));
    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"))
        copy_offload_override_token(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"));

    ret = copy_offload_list(handle, &job_list);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "List failed: %s\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    if (job_list != NULL && strlen(job_list) > 0) {
        printf("Active jobs:\n");
        job = strtok_r(job_list, ",", &saveptr);
        while (job != NULL) {
            printf("  %s\n", job);
            job = strtok_r(NULL, ",", &saveptr);
        }
    } else {
        printf("No active jobs\n");
    }

    free(job_list);
    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
Initialize
.I *output
to NULL before calling; the function does not set it if the server returns no
response body
.IP \(bu
The output string must be freed by the caller using
.BR free (3)
if non-NULL
.IP \(bu
Job list reflects the server's current state at the time of the query
.IP \(bu
Completed jobs remain in the list until expired from the server cache
.IP \(bu
Jobs may complete or be cancelled between listing and subsequent operations
.IP \(bu
Parse the comma-separated list using
.BR strtok (3)
or similar functions
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_copy (3),
.BR copy_offload_status (3),
.BR copy_offload_cancel (3),
.BR strtok (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR libcopyoffload (3)
