.TH COPY_OFFLOAD_STATUS 3 "April 2026" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
copy_offload_status \- query the status of a data movement job
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.PP
.BI "int copy_offload_status(COPY_OFFLOAD *" offload ", char *" job_name ,
.BI "                        int " max_wait_secs ,
.BI "                        copy_offload_status_response_t **" status_response );
.PP
.BI "void copy_offload_status_cleanup("
.BI "                        copy_offload_status_response_t *" status_response );
.PP
.BI "void copy_offload_status_pretty_print(FILE *" out ,
.BI "                        copy_offload_status_response_t *" status_response );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copy_offload_status ()
function queries the copy-offload server for the current status of a data movement
job previously submitted via
.BR copy_offload_copy (3).
The function can either return immediately with the current status or wait for
the job to complete.
.PP
The response is parsed from JSON into a structured format that includes job state,
progress information, timing data, and error messages if any.
.SS Parameters
.TP
.I offload
Handle initialized and configured for server communication.
.TP
.I job_name
Job identifier returned by
.BR copy_offload_copy (3).
.TP
.I max_wait_secs
Maximum time in seconds to wait for the job to complete:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
0 - Return immediately with current status
.IP \(bu
\-1 - Wait indefinitely until completion
.IP \(bu
>0 - Wait up to specified seconds, return earlier if completed
.RE
.TP
.I status_response
Pointer to a pointer that will receive the status response structure. The caller
must call
.BR copy_offload_status_cleanup (3)
on this structure to free associated memory.
.SS Status Response Structure
The
.B copy_offload_status_response_t
structure contains:
.TP
.I state
Current job state (e.g., "Starting", "Running", "Completed", "Error").
.TP
.I status
More detailed status description.
.TP
.I message
Additional information about the current state or any errors.
.TP
.I command_status
Structure containing:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
.I command
- The data movement command being executed
.IP \(bu
.I progress
- Percentage complete (0-100)
.IP \(bu
.I elapsed_time
- Duration of operation (e.g., "1m30s")
.IP \(bu
.I last_message
- Most recent output line from the command
.IP \(bu
.I last_message_time
- Timestamp of last_message
.RE
.TP
.I start_time
Local time when the job started.
.TP
.I end_time
Local time when the job completed (NULL if still running).
.SS Helper Functions
.TP
.BR copy_offload_status_cleanup ()
Frees all memory associated with a status response structure, including the
underlying JSON object. After calling this function, no fields of the structure
should be accessed.
.TP
.BR copy_offload_status_pretty_print ()
Writes a human-readable representation of the status response to the specified
file stream. Useful for debugging and logging.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR copy_offload_status ()
returns 0 on success. On success,
.I *status_response
points to a valid structure that must be freed with
.BR copy_offload_status_cleanup (3).
.PP
Returns 1 on failure. On failure,
.I offload->err_message
contains an error description and
.I *status_response
may be NULL or point to a partial response structure.
.PP
.BR copy_offload_status_cleanup ()
and
.BR copy_offload_status_pretty_print ()
do not return values.
.SH ERRORS
Error messages are stored in
.IR offload->err_message .
Common errors:
.IP \(bu 3
"Error formatting request: buffer too small" - Job name or parameters too long
.IP \(bu
libcurl errors - Network failures, connection timeouts
.IP \(bu
HTTP 404 - Job not found (invalid job_name or job expired)
.IP \(bu
HTTP 401 - Authentication failure
.PP
This function does not set
.IR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Interface	Attribute
T{
.BR copy_offload_status ()
T}	Thread safety: MT-Safe
.TE
.PP
Thread-safe if each thread uses its own COPY_OFFLOAD handle and status_response
structure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.\" example-file: example_status.c
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;
    char *job_name = NULL;
    copy_offload_status_response_t *status = NULL;
    int ret = 1;

    handle = copy_offload_init();
    if (!handle) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Init failed\n");
        return 1;
    }

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_SKIP_TLS"))
        ret = copy_offload_configure_without_tls(handle);
    else
        ret = copy_offload_configure(handle);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Configure failed: %s\n",
                handle->err_message);
        goto cleanup;
    }

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"))
        copy_offload_override_cert(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"));
    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"))
        copy_offload_override_token(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"));

    /* Submit a job */
    ret = copy_offload_copy(handle, NULL, 4, 8, 0,
                            "/source/data", "/dest/data",
                            &job_name);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Copy failed: %s\n",
                handle->err_message);
        goto cleanup;
    }

    /* Wait up to 5 minutes for completion */
    ret = copy_offload_status(handle, job_name, 300, &status);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Status query failed: %s\n",
                handle->err_message);
    } else if (status) {
        printf("Job state: %s\n", status->state);
        printf("Progress: %d%%\n", status->command_status.progress);

        /* Pretty-print full status */
        copy_offload_status_pretty_print(stdout, status);

        copy_offload_status_cleanup(status);
    }
    ret = 0;

cleanup:
    free(job_name);
    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return ret;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
The status_response structure contains pointers into the internal JSON object.
These pointers become invalid after
.BR copy_offload_status_cleanup ()
.IP \(bu
When max_wait_secs is 0, the function returns immediately, making it suitable
for polling loops
.IP \(bu
The server may enforce maximum wait times regardless of max_wait_secs
.IP \(bu
Progress information is only available when using dcp-based data movement tools
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_copy (3),
.BR copy_offload_cancel (3),
.BR copy_offload_list (3),
.BR json_tokener_parse (3),
.BR libcopyoffload (3)
