.TH COPY_OFFLOAD_COPY 3 "April 2026" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
copy_offload_copy \- submit a new data movement request
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.PP
.BI "int copy_offload_copy(COPY_OFFLOAD *" offload ", const char *" profile_name ,
.BI "                      int " slots ", int " max_slots ", int " dry_run ,
.BI "                      char *" source_path ", char *" dest_path ,
.BI "                      char **" output );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copy_offload_copy ()
function submits an asynchronous data movement request to the copy-offload server.
The request is queued as a job and returns immediately with a job identifier that
can be used to monitor progress, check status, or cancel the operation.
.PP
The function constructs a JSON request body conforming to API version 1.0 and
sends it via HTTP POST to the server's /trial endpoint.
.SS Parameters
.TP
.I offload
Handle initialized with
.BR copy_offload_init (3)
and configured with
.BR copy_offload_configure (3).
.TP
.I profile_name
Name of the Data Movement profile to use. This profile is defined on the server
and controls data movement tool selection, options, and behavior. Pass NULL or
empty string to use the default profile.
.TP
.I slots
Number of parallel data movement processes to request. The server accepts
.B \-1
to defer to the profile default,
.B 0
to disable the slots field in the hostfile, or a positive integer to request a
specific number.
.TP
.I max_slots
Maximum number of parallel processes allowed. The server accepts
.B \-1
to defer to the profile default,
.B 0
to disable the max_slots field in the hostfile, or a positive integer as an
upper bound. The server does not enforce that
.I slots
\<=
.IR max_slots .
.TP
.I dry_run
If non-zero, performs a dry-run operation that validates the request without
actually moving data. Useful for testing paths and permissions. Pass 0 for actual
data movement.
.TP
.I source_path
Absolute path to the source file or directory. Must be accessible from the Rabbit
node running the copy-offload server.
.TP
.I dest_path
Absolute path to the destination location. Parent directory must exist and be
writable.
.TP
.I output
Pointer to a char* that will receive the job name string on success. The job name
format is server-defined. The caller is responsible for calling
.BR free (3)
on this string if it is non-NULL.
.SS Request Format
The function sends a JSON request with the following structure:
.PP
.nf
{
  "computeName": "<local-hostname>",
  "sourcePath": "<source_path>",
  "destinationPath": "<dest_path>",
  "dmProfile": "<profile_name>",
  "dryrun": true|false,
  "dcpOptions": "",
  "logStdout": true,
  "storeStdout": false,
  "slots": <slots>,
  "maxSlots": <max_slots>
}
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns 0 on success. On success,
.I *output
contains the job name string that must be freed by the caller.
.PP
Returns 1 on failure. On failure,
.I offload->err_message
contains a descriptive error message. The
.I offload->http_code
field contains the HTTP response code if the request reached the server, or \-1
if there was a libcurl error before receiving an HTTP response.
.PP
Common HTTP response codes:
.IP \(bu 3
200 - Success, job submitted
.IP \(bu
400 - Bad request (invalid parameters)
.IP \(bu
401 - Unauthorized (invalid or missing bearer token)
.IP \(bu
500 - Server error
.SH ERRORS
Error messages are stored in
.IR offload->err_message .
Common errors include:
.IP \(bu 3
"Error formatting request: buffer too small" - Request parameters too long for
internal buffers
.IP \(bu
"Error formatting body: buffer too small" - JSON body exceeds buffer
.IP \(bu
libcurl errors - Connection failures, DNS errors, TLS errors
.IP \(bu
Server HTTP errors - Returned in response body and copied to err_message
.PP
This function does not set
.IR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Interface	Attribute
T{
.BR copy_offload_copy ()
T}	Thread safety: MT-Safe
.TE
.PP
Thread-safe if each thread uses its own COPY_OFFLOAD handle.
.SH EXAMPLE
.\" example-file: example_copy.c
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;
    char *job_name = NULL;
    int ret;

    handle = copy_offload_init();
    if (!handle) return 1;

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_SKIP_TLS"))
        ret = copy_offload_configure_without_tls(handle);
    else
        ret = copy_offload_configure(handle);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Configure error: %s\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"))
        copy_offload_override_cert(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_CERT"));
    if (getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"))
        copy_offload_override_token(handle, getenv("COPY_OFFLOAD_TOKEN"));

    /* Submit copy with 4 initial slots, up to 8 max */
    ret = copy_offload_copy(handle, "high-performance",
                            4, 8, 0,
                            "/lustre/data/input.dat",
                            "/nvme/scratch/output.dat",
                            &job_name);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Copy failed: %s (HTTP %ld)\n",
                handle->err_message, handle->http_code);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    printf("Copy job submitted successfully: %s\n", job_name);

    /* Monitor or wait for completion... */

    free(job_name);
    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
The job name returned in
.I *output
must be freed by the caller
.IP \(bu
Data movement proceeds asynchronously after this function returns
.IP \(bu
Use
.BR copy_offload_status (3)
to monitor job progress
.IP \(bu
Source and destination paths must be absolute paths
.IP \(bu
Profile names are server-defined and may vary by installation
.IP \(bu
The server may apply quota limits on slots and job count
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_status (3),
.BR copy_offload_list (3),
.BR copy_offload_cancel (3),
.BR copy_offload_init (3),
.BR copy_offload_configure (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR libcopyoffload (3)
