.TH COPY_OFFLOAD_CANCEL 3 "January 2025" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
copy_offload_cancel \- cancel a running copy-offload job
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.PP
.BI "int copy_offload_cancel(COPY_OFFLOAD *" offload ", char *" job_name ,
.BI "                        char **" output );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copy_offload_cancel ()
function requests cancellation of an active copy-offload job on the server. The
function sends an HTTP DELETE request to the server's /cancel/{job_name} endpoint.
.PP
Cancellation is asynchronous. The function returns immediately after submitting
the cancellation request, but the actual job termination may take some time
depending on the data movement tool and current operation.
.SS Parameters
.TP
.I offload
Handle initialized and configured for server communication.
.TP
.I job_name
Job identifier to cancel, as returned by
.BR copy_offload_copy (3).
.TP
.I output
Pointer to a char* that will receive any response message from the server. The
caller is responsible for calling
.BR free (3)
on this string if it is non-NULL. The server may return confirmation text or
error details.
.SS Cancellation Behavior
When a job is cancelled:
.IP \(bu 3
The server sends a termination signal to the data movement process
.IP \(bu
The job state transitions to "Cancelled" or "Error"
.IP \(bu
Partial data may exist at the destination
.IP \(bu
The job remains queryable via
.BR copy_offload_status (3)
until it expires
.PP
Jobs in different states respond to cancellation differently:
.IP \(bu 3
Queued jobs are removed immediately
.IP \(bu
Starting jobs are terminated during initialization
.IP \(bu
Running jobs are signaled to stop, may complete current file
.IP \(bu
Completed jobs cannot be cancelled (will return an error)
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns 0 on success. On success,
.I *output
may contain a confirmation message from the server that must be freed by the caller.
.PP
Returns 1 on failure. On failure,
.I offload->err_message
contains an error description. The
.I offload->http_code
field indicates the HTTP status code.
.PP
Common HTTP response codes:
.IP \(bu 3
200 - Success, job cancellation initiated
.IP \(bu
404 - Job not found (invalid job_name or already expired)
.IP \(bu
400 - Bad request (job already completed)
.IP \(bu
401 - Unauthorized (invalid bearer token)
.IP \(bu
500 - Server error
.SH ERRORS
Error messages are stored in
.IR offload->err_message .
Common errors:
.IP \(bu 3
"Error formatting request: buffer too small" - Job name too long
.IP \(bu
libcurl errors - Network or connection failures
.IP \(bu
HTTP 404 - Job not found
.IP \(bu
HTTP 400 - Job cannot be cancelled (wrong state)
.PP
This function does not set
.IR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Interface	Attribute
T{
.BR copy_offload_cancel ()
T}	Thread safety: MT-Safe
.TE
.PP
Thread-safe if each thread uses its own COPY_OFFLOAD handle.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;
    char *job_name = NULL;
    char *response = NULL;
    int ret;

    handle = copy_offload_init();
    copy_offload_configure(handle);

    /* Submit a job */
    ret = copy_offload_copy(handle, NULL, 4, 8, 0,
                            "/source/large-data",
                            "/dest/large-data",
                            &job_name);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Copy submission failed\\n");
        return 1;
    }

    printf("Job submitted: %s\\n", job_name);
    sleep(2);  /* Let it start */

    /* Cancel the job */
    ret = copy_offload_cancel(handle, job_name, &response);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Cancel failed: %s (HTTP %ld)\\n",
                handle->err_message, handle->http_code);
    } else {
        printf("Cancellation requested\\n");
        if (response) {
            printf("Server response: %s\\n", response);
            free(response);
        }
    }

    free(job_name);
    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
Cancellation is asynchronous; the job may not stop immediately
.IP \(bu
Partial data may remain at the destination after cancellation
.IP \(bu
Use
.BR copy_offload_status (3)
after cancellation to confirm termination
.IP \(bu
Attempting to cancel an already completed job returns an error
.IP \(bu
The job remains queryable until it expires from the server cache
.IP \(bu
Cannot cancel jobs that were submitted by a different workflow token
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_copy (3),
.BR copy_offload_status (3),
.BR copy_offload_list (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR libcopyoffload (3)
