.TH LIBCOPYOFFLOAD 3 "January 2025" "libcopyoffload" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
libcopyoffload \- library for offloading data movement operations
.SH LIBRARY
Copy Offload Library (libcopyoffload, \-lcopyoffload)
.br
Also requires: libcurl (\-lcurl), libjson-c (\-ljson-c)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <copy-offload.h>
.sp
Link with \fI\-lcopyoffload \-lcurl \-ljson-c\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B libcopyoffload
library provides a C API for offloading data movement operations to a remote
copy-offload server. This allows compute applications to initiate, monitor, and
manage large-scale data transfers without blocking application execution.
.PP
The library establishes secure TLS connections to copy-offload servers running
on NearNodeFlash (NNF) Rabbit nodes and supports authentication via bearer tokens.
Data movement requests are submitted as asynchronous jobs that can be monitored,
listed, and cancelled.
.SS Key Features
.IP \(bu 3
Secure TLS 1.3 communication with copy-offload servers
.IP \(bu
Bearer token authentication for workflow isolation
.IP \(bu
Asynchronous data movement job submission
.IP \(bu
Job monitoring with progress tracking
.IP \(bu
Job cancellation capability
.IP \(bu
Support for dry-run operations
.IP \(bu
Configurable parallelism (slots)
.SS Typical Workflow
.IP 1. 4
Initialize handle with
.BR copy_offload_init (3)
.IP 2.
Configure connection with
.BR copy_offload_configure (3)
.IP 3.
Submit copy request with
.BR copy_offload_copy (3)
.IP 4.
Monitor progress with
.BR copy_offload_status (3)
.IP 5.
Clean up with
.BR copy_offload_cleanup (3)
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
.B DW_WORKFLOW_TOKEN
Bearer token for authenticating with the copy-offload server. This token is
typically provided by the workflow management system and grants access to the
user's workflow namespace.
.TP
.B NNF_CONTAINER_LAUNCHER
The hostname of the Rabbit node running the copy-offload server when using MPI.
If not set, the library reads from
.IR /etc/local-rabbit.conf .
.TP
.B NNF_CONTAINER_PORTS
Comma-separated list of ports the copy-offload server is listening on. The
library uses the first port in the list.
.SS Files
.TP
.I /etc/local-rabbit.conf
Contains the hostname of the local Rabbit node. Used when
.B NNF_CONTAINER_LAUNCHER
is not set.
.TP
.I /etc/nnf-dm-usercontainer/cert.pem
Default TLS certificate file in PEM format. Used to verify the server's identity
during TLS handshake.
.SS API Version
The library uses API version 1.0. The version is communicated to the server via
the "Accepts-version: 1.0" HTTP header. Version mismatches will result in
connection errors.
.SS Error Handling
Most functions return 0 on success and 1 on failure. On failure, a detailed error
message is available in the handle's
.I err_message
field. The
.I err_message
buffer is CURL_ERROR_SIZE * 2 bytes and contains either libcurl error codes and
messages or HTTP response errors from the server.
.PP
HTTP response codes are available in the handle's
.I http_code
field after operations that communicate with the server. A value of \-1 indicates
no HTTP response was received (typically due to libcurl errors).
.SS Thread Safety
The
.B libcopyoffload
library is not thread-safe. Each thread should use its own COPY_OFFLOAD handle.
The underlying libcurl library is initialized with
.BR curl_global_init (3)
which must only be called once per process.
.SS Memory Management
.IP \(bu 3
Handles created with
.BR copy_offload_init (3)
must be freed with
.BR copy_offload_cleanup (3)
.IP \(bu
String outputs returned via char** parameters must be freed by the caller using
.BR free (3)
.IP \(bu
Status response structures must be cleaned up with
.BR copy_offload_status_cleanup (3)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <copy-offload.h>

int main(void) {
    COPY_OFFLOAD *handle;
    char *job_name = NULL;
    int ret;

    /* Initialize and configure */
    handle = copy_offload_init();
    if (!handle) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Failed to initialize\\n");
        return 1;
    }

    ret = copy_offload_configure(handle);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Configure failed: %s\\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    /* Submit copy request */
    ret = copy_offload_copy(handle, "default", 4, 8, 0,
                            "/source/data", "/dest/data",
                            &job_name);
    if (ret != 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Copy failed: %s\\n",
                handle->err_message);
        copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
        return 1;
    }

    printf("Job submitted: %s\\n", job_name);

    /* Monitor status */
    copy_offload_status_response_t *status = NULL;
    ret = copy_offload_status(handle, job_name, 300, &status);
    if (ret == 0 && status) {
        copy_offload_status_pretty_print(stdout, status);
        copy_offload_status_cleanup(status);
    }

    free(job_name);
    copy_offload_cleanup(handle);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copy_offload_init (3),
.BR copy_offload_configure (3),
.BR copy_offload_copy (3),
.BR copy_offload_status (3),
.BR copy_offload_list (3),
.BR copy_offload_cancel (3),
.BR copy_offload_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_easy_init (3),
.BR json_tokener_parse (3)
.PP
NearNodeFlash Copy-Offload Documentation:
.br
https://nearnodeflash.github.io/dev/guides/data-movement/copy-offload/
.SH NOTES
This library is designed for use within the NearNodeFlash (NNF) environment on
HPE systems. It requires a properly configured copy-offload server and workflow
infrastructure.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2024-2025 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP
.PP
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
